---
layout: post
title: "questions"
date: 2017-12-1
---

The past year, I came up with the goal of asking better questions, both to myself and to other people. Part of this was because I was preparing myself to move to a new city, Chicago, away from California, where I enjoyed 23 glorious and formative years. I wanted to ask better questions to myself be able to help myself grow and steer myself in the right direction, and I wanted to be able to ask better questions to others to establish better relationships. 

A little context is necessary. Growing up, I wasn’t the most social kid. In fact, it took a summer public speaking class that my mom stonewalled me into taking to give me the skills and the courage to start speaking to any of my peers - but that’s a story for another day. What I learned during this time is that when you’re not a very good talker, you become an excellent listener. This is an underrated skill that I appreciate having now. What I also learned during this time (reading Dale Carnegie’s class book) is that one of the most effective ways to make friends is to be genuinely interested in them - to ask questions. So I started, slowly but surely. This worked, and I started making friends, despite still not being the most colloquial kid on the block. Still, I always felt like I, and quite frankly a lot of people I encounter in daily life, are being lazy. We can ask questions that are so much better. 

Coming up with and tracking down intriguing questions is, and always will be an on going process - that’s the fun of the infinite game. There’s some great ones that I’ve enjoyed, such as “Given a choice between living on Mars or in a Space Station, which would you choose?” or “Are hot dogs sandwiches?” More recently one that I’ve been thinking about is a variation on the old nature versus nurture debate. The question is: “Did you discover, or create yourself?” 

It may seem like the same pig covered in different dirt, but the subtle difference is the latter implies a greater degree of autonomy. To me, nature versus nurture was always asking whether you thought more of who you are was attributed to genetics, which is beyond your control, or your environment and upbringing, a large portion of which you have no influence over or autonomy regarding. Discovering or creating yourself starts the timeline in your later years, when you’re fully self aware and have the wherewithal to make your own decisions with downstream consequences. 

Since about 2 years ago, I’ve firmly held the believe that the “conscious” years of your life begin around age 22. The reason I say this is because from ages 0-14, you’re either literally not conscious of what’s going on, or life is just zooming by in a blur as you’re being raised. You hit 15-18 and you start to have your first inklings of self awareness and begin to think that you’re the pilot of this spaceship, but really you’re being piloted by your parents, your peers, and society at large, in that order. You’re not even in the backseat, you’re in the trunk. Enter 18-21. Now you’re in college, away from your parents, and their direct influence lessens just a bit. However, you’re still incredibly impressionable, and in the big pond that is university, you’re tugged left and right, sometimes imperceptibly. Finally, you hit your senior year and your first couple years out of school and it’s like your eyes are opened for the first time. You’re standing on solid ground, you have a solid foundation of identity, yet a dynamic layer of growth on top of it. You have some idea of what you want and where you want to go, but more importantly, you know it’s your mission to figure it out. No one else’s. This is where your conscious life begins. Full technicolor. 

Discovering or creating yourself occurs either at the beginning, or just before this period. Nurture versus nature can have the years before that, everything that comes after is far more glorious anyways. To a certain degree this is a locus of control question but in many ways, it’s also not. I’m firmly in the “created myself” camp, but I could easily visualize being in the shoes of an external locus of control individual who believed to have “discovered themselves.” 
The reason why I say I “created myself” with such conviction is because I remember thinking and analyzing certain characteristics and personality traits I had throughout college, deciding which ones I liked, and creating plans to actively change or remove the ones I didn’t. I determined by base “nature” and placed myself in charge of being my own nurture. 

This just happens to be the question on my mind as I’m winding down this long flight. Clearly don’t  have a good answer yet, as you can see. Would love to hear more interesting questions though, please reach out if you’ve got one you like alot. Love to chat. Exiting the flow now, that’s all for now. 
