---
layout: post
title: "02. inertia"
date: 2017-12-1
---

I’ve always said that I’m a very inertia-based person. It’s my variation on having an addictive personality that I’ve found to be useful when confronted with some of my more frustrating behavior patterns. 

When you are an addict (I assume), you not only cannot stop yourself from the behavior you are trying to prevent once you have already begun said behavior; you are also unable to prevent yourself from seeking out this behavior in the first place. For example, your run of the mill oatmeal addict will only not be unstoppable once he has already begun eating oatmeal; he will also dedicate a large majority of his waking hours in the senior home he resides in scheming up ways to acquire and consume more oatmeal. Addict is thy name, oatmeal is thy game. 

Enter me. The inertia-based guy. I too, like the addict, will not be able to stop myself from certain behavior patterns once I’ve already begun engaging in them. However, unlike the addict, I am perfectly able to stop myself from seeking them out in the first place - it almost always takes a stimulus to tip me over the threshold. 

Let’s use an example that happens more often than I would like. I would not consider myself an oreo addict by any stretch of the imagination. However, place a pack of oreos in front of me during television watching time, and I can guarantee you that they will be obliterated. Snack size, normal pack, family pack, I can’t and don’t discriminate. The thought of having “just one” or “just a couple” seems laughable to me. I’m not a quitter, why would I stop at any point? Consider the family pack. If you’ve ever bought one, you’ll know those things are massive. Trust me, they are - about a third or half of the way through, I’ll already be full, and the marginal utility will be rapidly approaching negative numbers, but I’ll plow my way through the rest of them, stomach and other intestine well-being be damned. 

I don’t have an eating disorder, though I’m genuinely shocked I haven’t weighed 300 pounds at one point or another in my life. This behavior operates on both sides of the spectrum for me, for good and for bad. Positive example - whenever I discover a new passion, ie: building mobile apps, writing, mixing music - I throw myself completely into it and can absolutely not stop thinking about it. In those periods it seems insane that I would spend time doing anything else. When I’m really going like this, it feels like I’m going downhill. Specifically I feel like that gigantic boulder in that Indiana Jones movie, just unstoppable and rolling with all of this acceleration towards some to-be-determined conclusion. Sometimes that conclusion is a terrible stomach ache, sometimes it’s a new creative outlet. To me, it’s useful to visualize and describe my personality in this way. To date though, I’ve never articulated it at length to anybody else, except for the time I had to explain myself when the CTO of my company asked how I thought things were going for us and I cheerfully replied that I felt “things were really going downhill.” 

I think I have some passable explanation, at least for the regarding negative activities. There’s a quote from one of my favorite authors Haruki Murakami, in which he’s talking about his system of discipline and code of conduct. He says: “I know if I were to break one of my rules, I will break all of them.” At first glance it seems sort of defeatist and pessimistic, but in practicality this seems accurate to how the human (at least my) psyche operates. I start out with the utmost discipline and energy to enforce my own rules, but if I slip up, I’m far more liable to make exceptions, start making excuses for myself, and the whole Jenga tower tumbles. 

The positive side of things is more of a black box to me. If I knew more, I’d have a book proposal in by now. It sort of feels like when you catch a really long wave surfing. You may not have intentionally sought it out, but it’s carrying you for a ride so you may as well keep enjoying it until it peters out. That’s basically what I’m doing on this flight. That’s right, I started writing in this session in the “Lately” post (1400 words) and I still had more stuff to say so here I am again. 

Hope to be able to harness this characteristic, now that I’ve got it somewhat articulated and codified. One thing I did notice is that explicitly writing out my visualization of going down hill has definitely helped me in terms of maintaining my energy level in doing creative work while producing things. I’m done here for now - rolling on to the next one. 
