You hear the term “in the zone” tossed around frequently in the context of athletics. The marriage of physical exertion, mental concentration, and competition against oneself or others seems to sweep away the din, the clutter of distractions that so often occupies a bulk of our mental bandwidth like an unwanted squatter on cognitive real estate. All that is left when you enter the zone is a single objective. *Ball through hoop*. *Stroke through water*. *Bat on ball*. 

Ironically sport, with raucous soundtrack and frenzied movement, is often where we find our rare meditative moments. With modern day social media and workplace communication tools slicing our days and attention spans to ribbons, it’s no wonder we’re a generation anxious and on edge. Attention pulled in a million different directions - an email, a tweet, a coworker making that dreaded slow amble over to your desk for that *“important discussion we ought to have.”* 

In this 21st substitute for the neanderthal hunt for survival, there are no **real** stakes, but competitive fire and manufactured objectives provide enough to engage the entire being. As a swimmer growing up, I always marveled at how my world could melt away into nothing but strokes in the water, an unflinching black stripe staring up at me, and a gradually mounting dull pain, for hours. Yet chemistry study slipped my attention quicker than fresh bar soap. 

Recently a group of friends and I decided to all get scuba certified so we could go diving on a trip to Belize. I jumped into it brimming with confidence, thinking that my years as an aquatic athlete and total comfort with the ocean would enable me to blaze through the training process and arrive more quickly at the real reward - the Belize dives themselves. What I found was that my journey there and perspective thereafter were far more unexpected. 

To my surprise, I did not enjoy my first pool training dive at all. I wasn’t able to equalize the pressure in my ears properly as I descended, and felt like my ear drums were getting smashed in the entire time I was underwater. Additionally, we were learning a skill called a “mask clear” where you deliberately fill your mask with water and clear it by blowing bubbles out of your nose. I failed to do it 3 consecutive times in a row and distinctly remember thinking to myself *“I can’t see, I can’t breathe - I don’t know if this is for me.”* 

“I can’t breathe” may seem like a strange thought to occur during a sport that immediately conjures images of people with massive air tanks on their backs breathing like Darth Vader, but it was really the breathing portion of scuba diving that I had the most difficult time acclimating to. You breathe exaggeratedly slowly, as if in caricature of new age meditation nuts and yogis. This is both to conserve air in your tank and to prevent yourself from hyperventilating and panicking (harder than expected when under 60+ feet of water). This new breathing style was a devil to get used to in the early going, but proved to be a real boon once my comfort level was where it needed to be. 

Once I had a couple of dives under my belt and felt I was starting to get the hang of this new skillset, it felt like complete freedom. Those exaggerated breaths that give brand new divers so much trouble gave my mind and body such a sense of complete relaxation. Combined with the crystal clear Atlantic Ocean waters in Belize and the feeling of being suspended in water and flying through space, my mind experienced unbelievable clarity. 

During stretches where I wasn't marveling at marine life and stunning underwater landscapes (admittedly distracting), it was just me and my thoughts down there. No phone. No social media. No ability to hold conversation. This all would contribute to a tranquil and focussed state of mind on its own, but on top of it all, I had to stay engaged because if I was careless - lots more can go wrong daydreaming 60+ feet underwater than standing on a soccer field - I could die. Something that it wasn't difficult to remind myself of.

Here's the best way I can describe the sensation of scuba diving. There you are. Breathing as slowly as can be. Floating dreamlike, slow motion as if in a music video for a Mozart concerto. Completely cut off from anything or anybody that could lay claim to your attention. Keeping a careful distance away from that razor’s edge level of disengagement that could lead to a careless mistake because you know, death. All of the flow attributes of land sports with an added incentive cherry of survival on top. There's the occasional sound but none louder and clearer than the narrator sitting shotgun in your mental. And he/she is chattier than ever, thrilled to have the opportunity to have a conversation and sort some shit out, because lord knows they don't get time of day above the surface, buried under distractions that have their own distractions. You're vaguely aware that back on land there are trivialities that normally monopolize your mental bandwidth. Bills to pay. Tasks to complete. Social obligations to fulfill. They can't touch you here, becoming vanishingly small as thoughts and ideas of greater gravity come into focus. Ambitions to pursue. Family and friends. Exploring this literal whole new world sprawled out below you. A warm yet somehow puzzling question enters the mind, a challenging yet innately rewarding riddle.

***How to find this headspace on land?*** 

