## 2018 Themes

### Habits Over Goals
I’ve felt this way for a while, but I want to re-emphasize the pursuit of high quality, immutable habits over transient goals. I do think it can be neat and sometimes useful to have goals as bench marks, but overall, I find far more value in consistently working towards refining a disciplined process over a long time horizon. After all, my belief is that who you are is what you repeatedly do, and that tends in large part to consist of the “mundane” acts that make up most of your days. I also find that the mindset behind pursuing habits versus goals is completely different because pursuing habits entails an awareness and presence each and every day centered around bettering your process, resulting in (ideally) daily victories (both big and small), and a more nuanced growth experience. The pursuit of goals has always felt to me like mild to moderate failure during the pursuit phase, followed by a very brief and transient exaltation, followed immediately by a temporary loss of purpose. I believe strongly in the power of consistency and positive feedback loops, so this theme is definitely my highest priority. 

### Total Immersion
This one ties in a lot to deep work by Cal Newport, and mirrors the work habit of many accomplished and interesting people that I’ve either met or read about. I’ve tended to “dabble” in the past when it comes to new interests, or even existing ones. While it’s a nice way to get a start and some positive momentum flowing, I find that it’s actually had the past effect, of making me think that I’ve “done _____” and more than temporarily satiates my desire for something new. Not only is this approach not satisfying in any way, it’s also a massive obstacle to true learning and accomplishment. I’ve tended to be practical about how I budget my time, energy, and attention in the past, but in many ways I’d like to cast that aside in the future. If I find a topic / project / individual that monopolizes my attention, so be it. I want to be totally immersed in all of my experiences in ’18, and forward. I suspect this goes a long way towards battling this instinctive mindset that the digital world has left all of us with, crippling the ability to go deep and total intolerance of any boredom or down time. I’m going to go full bore down the proverbial rabbit hole, life budgeting be damned. I feel that that’s the right way to explore. 

### Discipline & Focus
In order to support my first two themes, I’m going to need to take my own level of discipline and focus to the next level. This seems pretty self explanatory, but I think it’s important for me to make discipline an explicit theme to make myself more cognizant of how/how much I can improve in this department. This ties in to my habit building, trying to train my brain to stretch out beyond its hamstrung attention span (thanks, phone) and to the total immersion as well. It’s near impossible to pursue any of these quality-producing, immersive endeavors without a simple ability to focus and not give into temptations. Contrary to the thought that discipline means leading a super regimented life and that it’ll suck all of the freedom and creativity out of my life with artificial constraints, discipline creates freedom. Discipline simply means that I have a simple set of rules I have to follow, and that with the extra time and space created in my life, I can be as free as I want and need to be. Discipline means having extreme pride in my work and having the patience to see it through, instead of settling for sloppy work or work habits. Discipline means knowing which activities and content consumption to say no to in order to allow those that I opt in to the space to bloom. At the end of the day, discipline is setting up a system for myself to deliver even when I’m not feeling at my best. Any can deliver at their best, what separates you is being able to when you’re not. 

### Production & Application > Consumption
I read a shit ton in 2017. Books, articles, white papers, etc, I consumed a TON. On this one hand, I learned a lot, and I certainly don’t regret it. On the other hand, I think you can delude yourself into this sense of pseudo productivity by simply consuming, particularly if you get into this habit of passively consuming, ie reading without actually thinking deeply and analyzing, or engaging with the content. To that point, I want to be more judicious about what I consume, and with what I do choose to consume, I want to give it my full attention and engagement. More importantly, I want to prioritize applying knowledge that I gain, and creating things, over consuming information. This is not only an awesome way to gain additional knowledge and retain existing knowledge, but I also believe it carries with it a much more intrinsically rewarding satisfaction. Making things makes me feel incredible in a way that consuming never could. Out of my head and into the world. That means more mixing, more production, more art, more writing, more designing, more programming, more building, more engaging with the world around me. Another thing about creating is that at least for me, it’s a very momentum based pursuit. My hunch is that if I keep my foot on the gas pedal, the fly wheel will begin turning and it will be very hard to stop. The feeling of recording that first mix was incredible. It showed me what I could do if I put my mind to it. I’m craving more of that feeling. 

### Free Spirit
Having a free spirit simply means giving myself the ultimate green light to enjoy the shit out of life. Whether that means dancing on a packed train or taking a spontaneous trip across the country, this is all about listening to my whimsies and pursuing joy. Partially because of culture (upbringing), partially because of self consciousness, I don’t think I’ve pursued this to the fullest in the past. And I do think that I’ll still have moments where I’ll have to fight myself or remind myself to do this, which is why I’m absolutely making it a priority. 

### Open Heart
I’m not really sure what this one means, to be honest. I can’t exactly put my thumb on what the feeling is, but I feel in the past that I’ve unintentionally kept people at arm’s length. I think I come across as a very friendly person that’s easy to talk to, and that I’m a good listener and good at being a friend towards others, but when it comes to the inverse, I’m bad at letting other people in and allow myself to lean on them, at least initially. For me it takes a while. I’ve been aware of this for a while, and I’ve certainly improved. However, this year I want to take it to another level, in both ways. I want to be the kind of person with the aura of making people around them feel valued and cared for. On the other side, I want to let people in, without friction, without any kind of awkwardness. Again, this isn’t something I can clearly define, I expect to do plenty of soul searching along the road, and I suspect I’ll find some semblance of what I’m looking for. 

### Positive Narrative, Consistent Energy
This one, along with the habits, is the bedrock of it all. What I’m realizing, to an even fuller extent, is that the narratives you tell yourself directly manifest themselves in your person and the world around you in astonishing ways. That being said, it’s paramount to be your own biggest advocate. Doubting yourself and shrinking your potential does no one any favors. It may feel egotistical at times, it may feel self indulgent at times, but I feel I already have the self awareness to make this a tool rather than a vice. The other half of this is consistent energy. I find that my energy usually waxes and wanes, in part due to external stimuli. Attributing a lack of energy to anything but yourself is lazy. Your life is nothing more than the stories you tell yourself and the energy you supply to feed them. 
