### 6 months before race day 
I'm dying to compete in my first triathlon - something I've been talking about doing for a while. One Saturday morning in an all-too-familiar spur of the moment decision making process that seems to envelope most of my major life decisions, I commit. Blindly. 

Seeing as it's my first race, it seems like a great opportunity to raise money for a good cause. I partner with [Team to End Aids Chicago](http://events.aidschicago.org/site/PageServer?pagename=2013) and buckle up for a wild ride. 

### 2 weeks before race day

Race day information email - bib number, logistics, course map.  The course is standard olympic (~32 miles), stretching up to Hollywood Ave and down to 31st St (mad far north and south). It looks longer. 

I’m now nervous. I’ve been training as much as possible given the amount of traveling I’ve been doing this summer, but I haven’t allowed myself the chance to comprehend the challenge in front of me. Seeing it laid out visually, at least one butterfly takes off and begins its fluttering paces around my stomach. 

It occurs to me that my decision to move to Chicago and my decision to do my first Olympic triathlon follow similar narrative arcs. I saw an opportunity for major life change and dove into the deep end before I had a chance to think too much (spurred by boredom, or recklessness, or both). The week leading up, I experience that “fuck, what have I gotten myself into?” moment. Nothing that can be done now. ***Onward.*** 

### 1 week before race day

The home stretch, where most athletes taper. A season’s worth of rehearsal has passed, all that’s left now is for the curtains to part - showtime. 

For me it’s the most complete week of training I’ve done. I run a 10k, do the equivalent of a sprint triathlon’s brick workout (12 mile bike, 3.4 mile run), and swim the race distance in open water. 

The brick workout and open water swim I’m doing practically for the first time, the rest of my training having consisted of isolated legs and indoor pool training. I prioritize comfort and familiarity over rest.

I ask tons of questions at the briefing expo. Tons of dumb questions. Do all transitions take place in the same area? *(Yes).* What do I wear? *(Triathlon jersey and bike shorts underneath a wetsuit).* Can I listen to music? *(No).*

*(Wait - really?)* 

All of it works. The butterfly settles in for a landing. 

### 12 hours before race start

### 6:00 pm, Friday night 

Most people I know are polishing off their first beer. I’m polishing off my pillows, about to (attempt to) go to bed in an hour. I can’t even remember the last time I went to bed before 9:00 pm. Kindergarten? The sun is still out. Poking me with its arms through my blinds. 

I lay wide awake, firing prayers off to Mr. Sandman and fall asleep, to my utter shock and amazement - for two hours. 

I wake up at 9:00 pm and spend the next 5 hours and 45 minutes oscillating between sleep and nerves until…

### 2:45 am. Race Day

Get up. Two of my roommates are just stumbling home from our friends' housewarming party. We shoot the shit, which soothes my nerves, and part ways - off on different adventures. My training team is supposed to meet at 3:30 am downtown to head to transition together. I get lost on the way and am late, naturally. 

### 4:00 am. Race Day 

Morning passes by in a blur. I find my way to transition and rack my bike. Set up my towel, bike shoes, running shoes, race bib. I’d spent the previous two days unpacking and repacking my gear bag. Naturally I forget to pack flip flops. I walk through the transition entrances and exits, then the half mile down to the swim start. Barefoot.

### 5:30 am. Race Day

The sun teases its arrival with vibrant purple skies. *42 minutes to race start.* The Chicago police department plays the "Star Spangled Banner” and “Amazing Grace.” Pomp and circumstance abound. The Chicago triathlon really is a cool event.

I chat with a 75 year old woman named Marilyn, a 10 year Chicago triathlon vet. Any advice? “Make sure you have fun honey, drink it all in.” That warms my heart. I wonder what age she started going by Marilyn. 

I zip up my wetsuit. I feel like a superhero. 

### 6:00 am. Wave Lineup

I’m in line to enter the water with my wave, the charity wave. Donning navy caps, one team. All of us at the Chicago triathlon, really. My heart is pounding with adrenaline. I tell it to shut up. It defies me, *with enthusiasm.*

### 6:10 am. In Water Start 

Floating, waiting. Floating. Waiting. 

### 6:12 am. Swim

Chaos. All at once 122 people start off, climbing over each other, kicking each other in the face, going under, around each other to gain an advantage. I learn now that I’m a much better swimmer than most. I easily cruise by most people. I learn now that I’m a poor spotter (term for staying on track in an open water swim). I cruise straight into a wall. 

The first two thirds of the swim go very well - the sun is rising on the lake, I’m strong and smooth. The last third feels longer than the first two thirds combined. I’m tired and the finish seems to be stubbornly propelling itself away from me at my exact pace. I intermittently swim breast stroke for about half of it. 

Then all of a sudden I’m at the finish. I climb out, strip down my wet suit, and have a red carpet moment between the end of the swim and the transition area. 

### 6:39 am. Swim to Bike Transition

I’m in the ***top 370 out of 2200*** after the swim. My only actual goals in this race are to:

- (1) finish  
- (2) finish under 3 hours. 

I take this transition casually, putting on my shoes and wheeling my bike to the exit.

### 6:45 am. Bike

I pedal out of the mounting area and up the ramp. I’m feeling good - I’d anticipated the swim to be the toughest and I’d been tired, but putting it in the rear view electrified me. I pull out my water bottle to hydrate - and promptly drop it on the ground. 

It skitters behind me and I’m forced to dismount to retrieve it, all while precious seconds tick away and a wall of bikes surges towards me. “Fuck! Shit! Shit! Fuck!” yells a 42 year old woman as she swerves to avoid me and my runaway hydration device. 

Besides the early flub, I also learn I’m a below average biker. I see more incredible looking bicycles than I’d seen in my entire life up to that point - as they were zooming by me on the course. Space ships, whirring by me.

About the midway point of the ride, my body finally wakes up. I start passing a bunch of my fellow non-spaceship bicyclists. Feels like I'm in Forza motorsport, switching gears and leaving people in the dust. I pick up a good pace, using each person in front of me to pass as the next anchoring point. 

The first half of the bike course goes up and down the lake front. The sun ambling into the sky, the lakeside serene. The second half of the course is a 12 mile loop through Lower Wacker (for those non-Chicagoans, a series of highway underpasses and tunnels). It feels like speeding through a fully loaded dumpster. Smells like hot garbage. *Zooming through hot garbage.* 

The rest of the ride passes without much incident. I cruise into transition figuring the worst is over, with a cool 6.7 miles to go. Piece of cake...

### 8:07 am. Bike to Run Transition

I take the most leisurely of transitions. I'd cramped up towards the end of the bike, and want to avoid that at all costs. I crush an entire pack of stinger jellies (which are delicious) and amble over to the run start. 

### 8:11 am. Run 

I'm an above average runner, or at least have above average stamina, so I pass bunches of people in the beginning of the leg. One guy tells me *"Man you're killing it - keep up the great work."* as I pass him, which both feels great and totally confuses me. I get the team spirit and genuine support of one another, but the competitor in me shakes his head, lost. 

### 8:27 am. Mile 2

2 miles in, *disaster.* 

Cramps - *LeBron in the playoffs cramps.* 

Life Alert *"help I've fallen and I can't get up"* cramps. 

Quads, hamstrings, calves - a total team effort. Complete body revolt. Betrayal. My legs suddenly feel like they're hewn from aged oak and are similarly difficult to move. Luckily I'm next to a medical tent and am able to sit down and tend to myself. I had 1 other goal coming into this race - to never stop. 

That one's out the window, and 3 hours looks like it's in jeopardy too. 

### 8:36 am. Mile 3

Back on the horse. 1 mile later, the horse bucks me back off. This time I'm walking, trying to stretch the cramps out as I go, looking like the caricature of a wooden toy soldier. 

I'm beginning to feel sorry for myself when this absolute mountain of a man, easily *250-300 pounds*, probably 40-50 years old, starts slowly jogging past me. 

Mind you, this guy looks like he's never done a day of cardio in his life, yet here he is out on the course passing me. He goes: *"Come on son! Don't give up! You got this - let's go!"*

Well fuck. 

Who am I to say no, coming from a guy like that? I'm jolted back to life and grit my teeth through the next 3 miles. 

### 8:59 am. Home Stretch

The last half mile of the race is, in act of cruel humor, the only incline of the entire run, and it's *steep*. I begin cramping up again in the last mile and want to avoid hobbling through the finish at all costs, but as soon as I see the finish line in Grant Park from the bottom of that hill, I’m strapped to a rocket. I bolt up the hill, round the corner, and fly down the home stretch, passing 4-5 people in the process. 

The crowd roar for each race participant is crazy, but I'm still able to pick out the voices of friends from the masses. They made it, despite tough obstacles. So did I. 

Foot on timing pad. ***2:54:13.***

### 9:06 am. Post Race

Tired, but triumphant. Unbelievably sweaty. Chatting with friends, trying to figure out where to go for breakfast. Breakfast? It’s somehow 9 am. 

I'm inconceivably sweaty - somehow noticing for the first time that it's 90+ out, and humid. 

I'm awash. In sweat, in gratitude, in relief. I let out a long low exhale. 

*What's next?*

### Post Race Musings

- The Chicago triathlon is unbelievably cool. The course goes all throughout the city and and is completely blocked off. Every step of the way you hear constant encouragement and clanging cowbells. It feels like the entire city is rooting for you. They are. As Chance the Rapper says, *“I got my city doing front flips”* 

- Triathletes come in all shapes and sizes - short, tall, young, old, fit, unexpected. I’ve never seen such a diversity of athlete.

- From my one experience I observed they are all uniformly supportive of one another. I’ve never come across such a large group of people so genuinely invested in each others’ success. It is a race and a competition but ultimately everyone is pushing each other to beat themselves. Kinda like a mosh pit, a big chaotic war where everyone is on the same team. 

- What’s next? Half ironman (70.4 total miles) in 2019 - but first, a half and full marathon, and (at least) one more Olympic tri. I’m hooked. 

- As it turns out, moving to Chicago and competing in the triathlon ended up following the exact same narrative. Jumped in, felt in over my head, fought to make my way in the early going, cruised, and now can’t get enough. 

- Thanks to the help of friends, family, and coworkers, I was able to raise **$2,193.00** for the Team to End AIDs, helping spread AIDs awareness and provide support and relief to those in need. Fundraising is still open through the end of the year, so anybody looking to contribute to a great cause can do so [here](http://events.aidschicago.org/site/TR/T2/T2?px=1284536&pg=personal&fr_id=1441)

- Couldn’t have done it without your support. Thank you!


