## Pros
- (1)  Unbelievable summer - great beaches, constant street fests and concerts, great selection of rooftop bars. Entire city shares a contagious energy to grab summer by the balls, so life from June - September is incredible
- (2) People as a general rule here are very down to earth, friendly, and kind. My hunch here is that since Chicago isn’t as transplant-heavy of a city as NY / SF / LA, most people are from the surrounding suburbs and towns, and still have large communities of friends and family here, so that sense of hospitality naturally extends to people that they encounter. 
- (3) Amazing restaurant scene - runs the full spectrum from Michelin star dining to dope homey hole-in-the-wall spots
- Great diversity of neighborhoods - totally different vibes and culture between River North (downtown big city vibe) to Wicker Park / Logan Square (hippie gentrified part of town) to Wrigleyville (more basic, frattier part of town) 
- (4) The cheapest of the major cities by far. For reference, I live in a pretty large 4 bedroom duplex with dual decks and 2 parking spots and I pay $870 a month for rent. I pay $10 month for a decent gym, meals run me around $8-$12 (the best meal I ever had in my life, with Brunts, ran us $60). Of course you can find your spots that are more expensive, but the general rule in Chicago is that a little takes you a long way 
- (5) Public transportation is cheap, fast, reliable, and efficient. I live along the blue line, which takes me to O’Hare (main international airport in Chicago) as well as downtown to work. I can get to the airport in 30 minutes and to work in 15. I live about a 8-10 minute walk from the train station so getting around the city without a car or uber is very easy. 
- (6) Flights from Chicago to most parts of the US are **SO cheap**. Given that O' Hare is a bustling international airport right in the middle of the country, Chicago is a major hub of aviation. I've been able to fly (round trip) to SF, LA, and NY multiple times over the past 2 years on fares less than $100 (Spirit, with a backpack as luggage obviously, but still). This combined with the shorter flight times makes exploring cities across the US so much easier. 
- (7) Big sports town - Chicagoans are die hard fans, and all about their sports teams - you won't find too many fair weather fans here. Even while the Bears and Bulls (and now the Blackhawks) suck, people are still loyal and dedicated fans. 
- (8) Music scene is awesome - because Chicago is one of the main big cities, artists will almost always do a stop whenever they go on tour. For my music taste, most people in Chicago don't listen to the same kind of music, so tickets are always dirt cheap (seen FKJ for $15, Tom Misch for $15, Majid Jordan for $30 or $40, etc)
- (9) Along those same lines, great music venues, ranging from your bigger stadiums (United Center) and ballrooms (Aragon Ballroom) to smaller, more intimate venues such as the Chop Shop (a concert space tucked away in the back of a restaurant) and Concord Hall (smaller, more intimate space with a banging sound system). 
- (10) Rich history - Chicago used to be one of the top two cities in the US (with NYC), and evidence of that rich history is everywhere. Though most of the city burned own in the 1871 Great Chicago Fire, there are still many of the buildings from when Chicago hosted the World's Fair, and you can catch a bunch of really cool architecture while strolling or driving through the city.

## Cons
- (1) It snows in April
- (2) The winter / weather in general - this is true of all of the non-west coast big cities though. Despite the Chicago winter having such a bad rep, in the 2 years that I’ve been here, Boston and New York probably have had worse winters. It’s a little bit colder on a consistent basis in Chicago, but we haven’t faced any of the huge snow storms that have been happening in Boston and New York. Plus below a certain temperature, it’s all the same anyway. You just stay indoors and cuff up. 
- (3) There seems to be a certain naivety about the people in Chicago - I can’t really put my thumb on what the source is, but they’re less progressive (not in the political way) and experimental. This could be my west coast bias colliding with good wholesome midwestern values but I find that people are a little less curious, a little more risk averse, and generally pretty content to live and die in the Midwest. Not that that’s inherently a bad thing, but I personally am not too fond of it because I always want to be around people that are pushing the envelope and inspiring me to do the same
- (4) **It snows in April **

## Long Term Outlook
- Great, fun city to live in while in your 20s, definitely offers a completely different perspective from the other large cities. a 2-4 year stint here would be the perfect amount of time. Don’t think I could see myself living here in the long term, but that’s more because of my lifestyle preferences (love hiking, surfing, being at the beach, etc) than anything inherently wrong with the city. 
