Over the past week, upon reflecting on the first quarter of the year and resolving to be more conscientious about how I spend my time, I realized that the real challenge was not actually that I waste my time in ways unknown. 

The real challenge turned out to be that I have certain behavior loops, built up over time, that have led me to waste time in autopilot. One perfect example would be that after completing a solid session of work, I instantly open new browser tabs to search and read about my local sports teams. On paper this is a pretty innocent habit. However, in the past, and still at times in the present, I’ve allowed that to cascade into 20-30 minutes of time wasted, instead of the 5-10 intended. 

Another example is a behavior loop I’ve created, and one I’ve yet to create. I had the goal of eliminating screen time at least an hour prior to bed, and not beginning my day  with screen time as the first matter of the day. In the past, I justified my morning screen time by reasoning that I needed to use my phone as my alarm. I’ve now had an analog alarm clock for some time, yet continue to start every day by rolling out of bed and scrolling aimlessly on my phone. To solve this once and for all, I will be leaving my phone in a designated spot outside of my room at least an hour prior to bed, which will in turn act as an instigator to get me up and out of my bed each morning without the usual drag. 

It’s a much more helpless feeling coming at existing problems with this perspective in some ways. It’s almost like being in the cockpit of an airplane with an immutable autopilot course charted for some self destructive destination, desperately clutching at any and all controls, all the while shouting “what are you doing!!” A dramatization for sure, but the underlying frustration is real. 

One emerging loop in my life that has been helpful is the meta loop of writing. I’ve been passionate about writing for most of my life and have been meaning for a long time to get into a consistent writing practice, for the sake of reflection and self expression more than anything else. Though it’s only been a couple of weeks, it’s allowed me to more accurately pinpoint thoughts and express and explore ideas that usually exist as ambiguous forms floating around my subconscious. 

I saw a fascinating marine SEALs quote: “You don’t rise to the occasion - you sink to the level of your training.” In layman’s terms, we can’t expect extraordinary behavior and performance to magically appear from within ourselves - these instances are exceedingly few and far between. To the contrary, in life, typically not everything will go perfectly, and in these times it is the foundation built on your discipline and consistency that will carry you to success, not only in pivotal life moments, but also in the mundane every day battles. 

I myself have harbored my own version of that sentiment - “you’re not who you are in those so-called character defining moments. you’re the actions that you repeat every day, without thinking.” That being said, I think I’ve allowed myself to coast on the every day and be much lazier than I would admit. With this new writing loop, the goal is that I can examine, fix, and reflect on the loops I’d like to add and change. 
