It’s shocking to me that I sit here, thinking and writing, a mere half week away from a quarter of the year being over. I had gotten used to telling people I’ve been in Chicago for a year and a half, as that was true around the December/January time period that I apparently had been clinging on to for the past 3 months. 

I guess part of it stems from the fact that you coast on a wave of optimism for all of January, and for the entire month it feels like the “first day” of the “new year.” February and March pass similarly subtly, probably because there aren’t any big sign posts in either month except for Valentines Day (for those inclined), and St. Patrick’s Day (which no one ever remembers). 

And so here we are, 3 months in, and a quick life scan tells me that it’s already been a epic year - I visited Banff National Park, lead my own project at work, hosted friends in Chicago for a legendary St. Patrick’s Day, and committed to my first Olympic distance triathlon. 

Yet despite having what I know to be a great 3 months, I couldn’t help but feel crestfallen upon realizing that a quarter of the year had slipped out of the waiting room of potential and into the recesses of the past. Maybe I need to practice more and deeper gratitude. Sure - granted. Maybe it’s a case of the “millennial mores” - we’re a generation of perpetually dissatisfied delinquents, relentlessly churning on the hedonic treadmill. 

I think more simply the answer is that at year’s end/start, I outlined and aspired towards radical behavior change, and expected results in the timeline of Amazon Prime. And I know radical behavior change does not and cannot happen over night. You don’t become a shredded specimen of a physical human being through marathon 20-hour gym sessions for 1 week. It’s the steady, consistent, repetitious motion of dedicated progress. 

I can gladly look back on the past 3 months and say that I’ve made progress - that I’m a markedly different person than I was at the beginning of 2018, in ways both expected and unexpected. Yet the mind unsatisfied gives me this driving angst that I need to do more, to be better, yet simultaneously let go, relax, enjoy life. Metamodernism at its ironic finest, constantly oscillating between opposing, yet necessarily balancing forces. 

In any case, there were only 2 main goals to this ramble: **1) take stock of live over the past 3 months** and **2) kick off what will be a steady, consistent, repetitious dedication to making writing a habit.** I do believe that the meta aspect of habit forming informs and drives other habits. Destructively, it also works in the inverse. Sidestepping a carefully constructed disciplinary structure causes the entire house of cards to come crashing down. 

For the next couple of months I have a couple goals. I’d like to adhere consistently to **1) working on Mixtape 2) writing and 3) mixing music.** I’d like for each of those things to perpetuate the others, in a flywheel of flow states. I’d like to audit my life and remove any behaviors / thoughts / actions that consistently introduce negativity or waste into my life. Finally, **I’d like to really, genuinely, relax.** Knowing that I’ve pulled out every stop to design and architect the other aspects of my life as to engineer true freedom. 

See you back here in a week. 
